
Grief smells like mildew. I didn’t know I could feel grief for a person who is still alive, if it is better or worse than the mourning of the one in the ground. Both carry the scent of the elder’s basement, not quite as deep as their grave, a collection of dust and proof of existence. Half-filled journals, cups with cracks in the paint and lipstick marks still stained on the rim, etc. You know the likes.  

The other, still alive, will walk past me on the street, and I’ll pretend they’re a ghost. The possibility of revival will be taut in those heavy steps between us. I imagine myself a necromancer, and in the evening, I’ll light a candle and stoop over the last remnant of them, aching as if my grief alone casts the spell that will return them to me. It will not. It never will.  

That scent, that heavy, dusty smell, will cling to me. It will be the ghost of someone who still walks in my peripheral vision. I’ll smell it in my room and on my clothes and caked as a second skin to me; my grief has not yet shrunk, nor have I grown around it. I could shed it like snakeskin, but it has become such a comfortable home to me. My misery is my company, and the scent of mildew reminds me of the basement of someone I used to love, where life has paused eternally as if they may walk into the room once more. I stay frozen on the sidewalk, unable to move when this skin calcifies impenetrably, and it is so familiar that I let time pass relentlessly before I catch the first breeze of spring and look around to find that months have slipped by without me, and they are no longer here, and they haven’t been for a very long time. It still smells like mildew. 